within a Toastmasters meeting there are
all sorts of different roles there's
things like grammarian awe counter timer
table topics Master speech evaluator
what the heck are all these rules about
and why do they matter why do they
actually help us become better public
speakers in this video I'm going to
explain why the various roles within
Toastmasters are so important and help
us each improve as more impactful
communicators so if that is something
that is interesting to you make sure you
watch this full video from start to
finish hey everyone my name is Wade
Patterson I am passionate about
impactful communication about
Toastmasters about public speaking my
goal is to provide a lot of really
beneficial video content that is
enjoyable to watch and hopefully helps
you in the public speaking or the
Toastmasters journey and if that sounds
like something that could be beneficial
to you then please subscribe to my
channel turn on notifications it's my
goal to provide a lot of value to you
and I'm using this YouTube channel to do
just that now if you are taking on any
specific particular role in Toastmasters
such as grammarian or table topics
master or humorist or joke master or
even Toastmaster running the whole
meeting go to my channel go to the main
page and check out the videos because I
have done a video for almost every
single role that there is in the
Toastmasters program because I want to
explain from start to finish if you are
taking on that role how the proper way
is to do it what things you have to
mention why the role exists all of those
sorts of things the purpose of this
video is to explain to you how these
different roles within Toastmasters have
real life app applications so throughout
this video I'm going to name a handful
of roles based on the club meeting that
I am used to I belong to a Toastmasters
Club in British Columbia Canada and we
have a certain agenda I understand that
your agenda might be slightly different
if you belong to a different
Toastmasters Club but I'm going to talk
about some of these specific roles and
why they have real life application
let's start with the grammarian rule and
again there is a video specifically on
how to do the grammarian role so
definitely check that out if you are
trying to take on that role but the
grammarian role has a couple purposes
purpose number one is to come up with a
word of the day that people have to use
club members are encouraged to use this
word when they are speaking the second
rule of the grammarian is to listen
throughout the meeting for great uses of
language and give a report at the end of
the meeting who used really great word
or expressions and maybe pointing out a
few words or Expressions that weren't
used properly and how club members could
improve in the future now vocabulary is
so important as a public speaker and one
of the big reasons for that is that if
you are able to use key vocabulary when
speaking you will capture your
audience's attention it will stand out
but also you will come across as even
more of an expert as an example you can
use various words that mean the same
thing but if you say I had a good time
out at the event versus I had an
incredible time or I had a happy memory
versus I had an experience that created
a feeling of nostalgia by using these
bigger words that aren't as common it
Taps into the audience's attention and
they connect with you on a deeper level
and if you can use these words directly
and expand your vocabulary there's
something about using a vocabulary that
not everyone uses that makes you come
across as an expert more intelligent
perhaps and this is another tool in your
tool belt belt as a public speaker that
will really help you come across as a
professional public speaker let's take
another role in the Toastmasters meeting
the timer rule why does the timer roll
matter well what people don't realize is
that staying within your allotted time
when giving a speech is so incredibly
important whether you're giving a work
presentation during a meeting that maybe
it's an hour meeting and your
presentation is supposed to be 20
minutes or perhaps you're presenting at
a conference and you're supposed to be
doing a 30 minute presentation but
there's a full agenda of speakers so if
you're too short the other speaker might
not be ready to go on stage and if you
go too long that might shorten the
amount of time especially if that
speaker is only available for their
specific amount of time immediately
following you by not keeping within your
time it can really throw the whole
agenda out of whack and that impacts
many people it's not a good thing within
the Toastmasters meeting there is a
timer who keeps every single role on
time and reports at the end of the
meeting to let everyone know who was
within their time and who maybe spoke
for too long or Too Short it's working
on these skills becoming familiar and
keeping note of how long you speak that
it's one of those important skills to
have so already we've seen that the
grammarian rule helps with vocabulary
the timer role helps keep us on time
let's look at another rule the ah
counter rule what's that all about well
within Toastmasters and all counter
their whole purpose is to listen
intently throughout the meeting and
catch any crutch or filler words that
people use things like
um er ah it's these things people say in
between sentences because silence
between sentences feels very
uncomfortable but the more of these
words that you have saying um uh so the
other day I um
I wanted to I wanted to buy this um it
was this thing at the mall and uh
listening to that is distracting you're
probably thinking oh wait take those
um's out of your speech
the more you can reduce the amount of uh
um as that you're saying in between
sentences the less distracting it is for
your audience so we've taken three
Toastmasters roles and already we have
three ways that you can be a better
stronger public speaker so now how about
the table topics role well I recently
created a video explaining why table
topics is so important and so I'll let
you check that video out fully but the
simplified reason is that impromptu
speaking or answering a question off the
top of your head when you don't have a
chance to prepare for it in advance is
one of the hardest things to do as a
public speaker and table topics is all
about asking questions that you can't
prepare for but you have to speak and
respond for a minute to two minutes
answering that question it's difficult
but it's one of the best things to
practice with public speaking within the
Toastmasters meeting there's many
evaluator or evaluation roles as well
the thing about those is that they force
you to become a good listener in order
to give a good evaluation you have to
listen intently you have to be a good
audience member listening and watching
the speaker the earlier speaker deliver
his or her speech and then writing
strategic notes that you're going to be
able to reference while delivering your
evaluation to the group another rule in
Toastmasters is called the humorist or
the joke Master the whole purpose of
this is to make the audience laugh I've
talked about this many times on my
channel but one of the best skills you
can have as a public speaker is
utilizing humor using humor making your
audience laughed as two things thing
number one is it relaxes you when you
hear the audience laughing or you see
them smiling you know they are enjoying
themselves and it takes so much pressure
off of you as the speaker her but the
second thing is it relaxes your audience
many audience members when sitting
watching a speaker are wondering is this
going to be enjoyable is it going to be
entertaining is it going to be funny if
you can make the audience laugh early in
your speech
you're going to have them for the rest
of the speech they're going to enjoy
that the earlier you can make them laugh
the better for both you and the audience
members another role within Toastmasters
is the toast which often happens at the
beginning of a meeting and what a great
skill to have if you've ever been to an
event maybe it was a networking event or
a dinner with friends perhaps somebody
gave a toast and if they did it well
there's something very special about
that and not many people are willing to
stand up and say a few words at an event
especially if it's close friends or
family members but the ability to do so
is incredibly special and is going to
make a mark so that's another real life
application that a Toastmasters role has
to public speaking and the final
beneficial role of Toastmasters which
affects real life situations is being
the Toastmaster the actual Toastmaster
of the meeting this in my opinion is one
of the most difficult rules to take on
because you are the quarterback of that
meeting you are responsible for making
sure everything stays on time you have
to fill the silence in between roles
this is the sort of experience that is
going to really help you if you ever
have to be an emcee in real life and
I've done videos on emceeing a wedding
or I'm seeing various events this is
something that's incredibly difficult
because it's not just speaking in front
of an audience you need to know when the
food's going to be ready you need to
know if all of the speakers are ready to
go you need to balance out a theme and
include timing and all of these sorts of
things there's a lot that goes into it
but the Toastmaster role at a toaster
Esters meeting helps you practice that
so if you're not already a Toastmasters
member I really encourage you to check
out a meeting and if that that's not
possible let's say you're in a community
or that maybe there's no Toastmasters
Club or the the schedule doesn't work
with your schedule timing doesn't fit
right there are still ways for each of
these roles for every single thing I
mentioned in this video there's still
ways you can practice on your own or
with a family member or friend so don't
freak out don't worry if you can't make
it to a Toastmasters meeting but I'm a
big advocate of the Toastmasters program
and if it's something you've been
thinking about checking out I'd really
encourage you to do so I've been a
Toastmasters member for seven years and
it's had a huge impact on myself and
becoming a more confident public speaker
but through this video I hope I showed
you that all of these roles in a
Toastmasters meeting it's not a
coincidence each one of them has a real
life application that can help you
become a stronger more confident public
speaker I hope this video brought you a
little bit of value you if it did
comment let me know consider subscribing
to my channel I would really appreciate
it otherwise I will catch you on the
next one